General Traits
--------------
Research: 55% (1:185c)
Industry: 100%
Growth: 170%
Civilian IO: NA
Max Hazard: 675
Technology Affinities: Gauss, Mines, EMP
Space Travel: Fast when Nodeline exists, Slow otherwise
Other: Earn 10% more in IO to Credits conversion than other races.

"The time has come; we can wait no longer for the Great Masters to return. Our numbers grow daily; our children must have meat. This galaxy is unworthy of its Gods, overrun by ignorant, arrogant slaves. It is time to teach them their place in the Great Scheme: they will learn to serve their betters or die. As we were commanded, so it shall be done. We will sweep all enemies from our path. In the darkness of this galaxy, we will forge an empire of light.

Born of fire! Born of steel! Born of science! Born of blood!"

General Description
-------------------
The Zuul are a race of space-faring marsupials. Human spacers have dubbed this species "the Rippers" for a number of reasons, not least the savagery of their attacks on SolForce colonies. Zuul have been present in this region of space for a number of years, and have been known to make guerrilla attacks on the colonies of all other sentient races. Because those attacks seldom left any survivors to tell the tale, little was known about the raiders: their physiology, technology, and motives remained a mystery for many years.

More recently, however, the numbers of the Zuul in the region seem to have increased exponentially, and their tactics have changed. SolForce has begun to encounter larger and larger contingents of "Ripper" ships that are willing to engage their enemies head-on. As captured prisoners, combat casualties and salvaged Ripper technology have become available to the SolForce science corps, a number of disturbing discoveries have been made.

First and foremost: it has been conclusively proven that the Zuul are not the product of natural evolution. These savage marsupials are the result of profound and sophisticated genetic tampering; they have been shaped by bio-science which far surpasses that of any known race. Although it is nearly impossible to say what sort of creatures served as the base stock for the Rippers, or what race created them, we do know that a number of their natural attributes have been enormously enhanced. Rate of reproduction, tendency to aggression, intelligence and psionic abilities have all been artificially increased... and the latter two qualities seem to be increasing further with each generation.

In only a few decades, the Zuul have gone from a smattering of disorganized raiding parties to a large, organized, and coordinated fighting force. Although the location of their central base is presently unknown, SolForce has gleaned some valuable information on the history of the Rippers from the ruins of planet Irridia-five. Please see the additional notes at the end of this briefing.

Technology
----------
Ships: Zuul ships appear to be assembled from components that were once part of some other structure. Very often their vessels are made up of parts torn from different sources; bits and pieces of several enemy ships, colonial storage crates, even ore carriers or water pods can all be made to serve in a single Zuul destroyer. The disparate parts are crudely welded together into a serviceable whole.

Examination of derelict Ripper vessels reveals bits and pieces stolen from many species. These fragments can often be identified by nose art or serial numbers; it is somewhat disturbing to note that very often, these random chunks were taken from a vessel lost in battle with a species other than the Zuul. From this evidence it would seem that the Rippers have visited the scene of many battles after the main combatants had departed, to comb through the drifting debris looking for anything, or anyone, hat they could use.

The only technology unique to the Zuul is their FTL drive, which is based on an unknown branch of gravokinetic theory. The so-called "rip drive" uses a focused energy event to create a miniature black hole. This artifcial singularity creates a tiny tear in the fabric of space-time, penetrating to the subspace or "Nodespace" layer. What begins as a small puncture immediately opens into a larger "rip", a new gravometric stress fracture which quickly forms a channel between the closest massive stellar body and that of a neighboring star system.

Any given Ripper-ship can detect and travel along these space-time tunnels, once they are opened. The "rip-lanes" eventually form a network not unlike the naturally occuring Node lines followed by human vessels. Unlike Node lines, however, a rip-lane is not a stable connection through Nodespace. These lanes have a tendency to collapse over time.

Weapons
-------
Zuul weapon systems, like the hulls of their starships, often appear to have been torn from the ships of other races, or back-engineered and adapted for use after having salvaged from an enemy ship.

Physical Characteristics
------------------------
The Zuul have a number of physical characteristics that are unusual in a sentient race. There is a high degree of sexual dimorphism within their species, with enormous physical and psychological differences apparent between males and females. Zuul also undergo an unusual cycle of development from birth to adulthood. Because there are such extreme differences between male and female Zuul as adults, and between all adult Zuul and their offspring in the early phases, a Zuul family seen together might easily be misconstrued as four or five separate species.

Nonetheless, there are some general statements which apply to all Rippers. They are a species of non-placental mammal, warm-blooded and oxygen-breathing, with a very high metabolic and reproductive rate. They thrive in a variety of conditions, and adapt with alarming speed to nearly any set of environmental challenges. Zuul of both sexes and all ages are covered with a thick coat of hair; colors vary with the individual. This fur will be considerably less dense on the adult male, and the coat may be greatly reduced in length and thickness on hotter worlds.

Zuul of all ages are omnivores, and have a taste for carrion. This is especially true in early childhood; a growing Zuul consumes many times its own weight in meat per day. Some xenobiologists speculate that Zuul were bred from a rootstock of carrion-eating predators, which may partially account for the extremely high resistance they have to infection, especially by bacterial pathogens.

Zuul of all ages also possess a rudimentary telepathic ability, which is strongest in the adult male. This crude telepathic communication is the basis for the basic Zuul social unit which SolForce has dubbed the "coterie". The coterie is an instinctive behavior pattern for the Zuul species; all adult Zuul are members of a coterie, which usually consists of a group of six-twelve females and one male. The male Zuul will take the dominant role and serve as a de facto "brain" for the entire unit; a coterie of Zuul IS a single unit, for all intents and purposes, subject to the direction of a single will. In Zuul society, the coterie (specifically, its male) is considered the individual "person".

Despite their resistance to disease and their native intelligence, the maximum lifespan of the average Zuul is not long. If he or she meets with no accidental or violent end, the Ripper metabolism is still so high that most members of the species die of natural causes before the age of 40.

See the additional notes on Zuul society at the end of this briefing.

..MALES
The average Ripper male ranges in height from 85-125 centimeters, with a mass ranging from 45-70 kilograms. Although far smaller than his female cohorts, he is strong and agile, and very adept at climbing. All of his senses are quite acute, but his vision is particularly sophisticated, especially in comparison to the female; some scientists suggest that under primitive conditions, he was adapted to serve as the "eyes" of his hunting party, helping them to track prey from an elevated position.

Of all Zuul, only the adult male is fully "sentient" in the modern sense of the word. His forelimbs are equipped with long-fingered, sensitive hands with opposable thumbs; his punch-claws are vestigial and do not interfere with tool use. His brain is much larger and more complex than that of a female Ripper; he is far more intelligent and has a more sophisticated telepathic ability. This large and complex brain is analagous to that of many other star-faring species, and allows him to understand and communicate complex ideas. Unlike the females of his species, he has both telepathic and verbal language skills, and with his dextrous hands he can build and de-construct various mechanical devices.

The psionic ability of the male Zuul is likely his most dangerous feature. It is through a telepathic link that he can control his coterie of much larger and stronger female Rippers; they obey his telepathic commands instantly and without reflection. The male Zuul can also use telepathic coercion and interrogation on members of enemy species; for more information on the tendency of Zuul raiders to kidnap sentient captives from enemy worlds, see "Intelligence gathering among the Zuul" at the end of this briefing.

..FEMALES
The Zuul female is a massive creature, ranging in height from 150-220 centimeters and weighing in at roughly 175 kilograms. Her bones are highly dense and strong, hinting at a species origin on a high-gravity world. Her muscular body is capable of leaping two or three times her own length, or lifting/pressing up to 400 kilos. Although she normally stands and walks upright, her hips and spine are still not fully adapted to running on two legs; she will drop to all fours when she wishes to move at speed.

Her fangs are quite sharp and her jaws are capable of exerting over 200 kilos of crushing force, but the female Zuul's most dangerous physical weapons are undoubtedly the two massive "punchclaws" which protrude from twin sheathes on her forearms. These natural weapons may have evolved from the digging claws of a primitive burrowing ancestor, but at present the claws are more often used to inflict catastrophic damage on enemy soldiers and equipment. With one swipe of her punch claws, a female Zuul can disembowel a man in heavy armor or tear through half an inch of titanium steel.

Although her brain is small relative to that of the male, with a maximum mass of roughly 800 grams, the female Zuul is a sensitive and intelligent beast in her own right. Her visual acuity seems to be limited, but her hearing and olfactory senses are quite sharp, and she also possesses a simple empathic ability. With the direction of a male, she is capable of sophisticated tool use, including the operation of heavy machinery; if the male of a Zuul coterie is killed, however, the females will remain highly dangerous. Even without direction, a group of female Zuul is a hunting pack of very large and intelligent predators, and they can always use simple weapons with some skill.

Perhaps the most noteworthy aspect of the female Zuul's physiology is her fertility cycle. An adult female is almost always "pregnant", for want of a better word: she carries a full litter embryonic Zuul at all times. Although these offspring are conceived within her body, they emerge within 30 days from the aqueous environment of her womb and are placed within a marsupial pouch for safe-keeping. Up to a dozen of these Ripper "proto-worms" will be attached to her nipples at any given time.

Like other marsupials, the Zuul female forcefully ejects her "milk" into the mouths of her offspring while the eyeless, worm-like pups nestle in the safety of her pouch. Unlike ordinary marsupials, however, or ordinary mammals for that matter, the milk of a Ripper female is not primarily intended to nourish her young. Instead, she secretes a narcotic fluid which is designed to keep her pouchlings dormant. They will remain effectively comatose until the flow of her "milk" has stopped, and will only awaken and begin to grow and develop when she has died, or removed them from her pouch.

..INFANT/LARVAL PHASE
Once the flow of "milk" to an undeveloped Zuul has stopped, it quickly rouses from its dormancy. At this stage of a Ripper's life, the tiny infant has no eyes, no ears, and only vestigal limbs; the full length of its body is not more than 15 centimeters. Shaken from the sleep induced by its mother's milk, however, the infant Ripper will obey its one imperative: to eat. Within minutes it will begin to devour all animal and vegetable matter in its path.

Since they are used almost exclusively for hard and hazardous labor, it is not unusual for a brooding female Zuul to die while carrying a pouch full of young. If she does, the members of her coterie will not be concerned; the mother's own body immediately becomes a host for the proto-worms sleeping in her pouch.

Upon awakening, the larval Rippers will tunnel through flesh and bone until every particle of their mother is devoured. However, it is not necessary for a female Zuul to die in order to provide nourishment for her children: she may also remove proto-worms from her pouch at any time and place them within the corpse of a fallen foe, or into any mound of meat or vegetable matter she may have gathered for the purpose of feeding them.

After an initial burst of growth, the infant Zuul has an average length of 40 centimeters and a mass around two kilograms. Rippers this age greatly resemble the members of the Terran family Mustelidae (weasels, ferrets, etc). Armed with sharp teeth and claws, the young Ripper will also have the keen senses and intelligence of a cat-like predator, combined with a rudimentary telepathic sense. This very primitive instinctive telepathy allows the infant Zuul to detect prey, and to recognize other members of its own species.

Following their instinctive drives, Zuul of this age will usually form a nest with one or two other infants of the same sex and begin a life of hunting and stock-piling kills. Infant rippers have a metabolism so high that they sleep only rarely; they must hunt constantly for the calories to keep their long, slender bodies warm, and support their rapid growth and development.

There is no necessary relationship between infant and adult Zuul at this phase. When living on the surface of a planet, it seems to be common practice for adult Zuul to abandon their offspring during infancy and expose them to the elements, forcing them to adapt to the environment or die. Some xenosociologists claim that this is a cultural practice; the high rate of infant mortality may actually be deemed desirable, because only the fittest Zuul will survive the ordeal. See the notes on Zuul society at the end of this briefing.

..CHILD PHASE
It can take anywhere from 30-90 days for an infant Zuul to complete the infant phase and enter the pre-adolescent phase of its development. At this stage, the average Zuul has grown considerably, with a mass in the range of 20-50 kilograms. Males of this age will already be smaller than females, but Zuul of all ages will have gone through significant physiological changes.

The brain of the female Zuul has nearly doubled in size by this point, already approaching the 800 grams of the adult. She has developed significant muscle and bone strength in her limbs and torso, can stand and walk upright when she chooses, and will often launch herself in leaps several times the length of her own body to make a kill. Her two large "punchclaws" are already her primary weapons, used in hunting and in self-defense against other Zuul.

The brain of the male at this age already weighs over a kilogram, and has increased in complexity by an order of magnitude. He will have roughly the intelligence and the curiosity of a very young child from any other sentient species. He can walk upright and climb with great agility, especially if threatened. His under-developed punchclaws are useless as weapons, but do not interfere with his manipulation of objects; he will become increasingly attracted to tool use at this age. His telepathic abilities will begin to flower at a phenomenal rate, allowing him to attract and communicate with females and form a coterie of his own. He will also begin to acquire the language skills to communicate with older males.

It is at this age that the social relationships of Zuul begin to evolve. The members of infant Zuul "nests" will tend to drift apart, if they are male, as the pre-adolescent Zuul male instinctively seeks out a group of females to hunt and care for him. In the case of females, the pre-adolescent children tend to form even stronger bonds with their nest-sisters, and seek out other female Zuul to join into larger groups. Zuul females naturally form the empathic bonds of the coterie at this age, and begin to hunt in coordinated packs. Acting in concert, a group of six-twelve female Zuul can take down a prey animal much larger than themselves.

If left to their own devices, Zuul of this age will eventually form primitive coteries, with a pre-adolescent male providing guidance and direction to a group of females. However, this is also the age at which the adult males of their species will generally begin to take interest in their young. Some will seek new females to fill out gaps left in an adult coterie when one of the "wives" has been killed; other males will take an interest in the fledgling males, taking them on as disciples. Regardless, it is unusual for any Zuul to grow past the age of adolescence in a continued feral state. Most Rippers that survive infancy are adopted as children and raised to adulthood as members of Zuul society.

"Intelligence" Gathering Among the Zuul
---------------------------------------
Certain peculiarities of the male Zuul's cognitive process must be understood before the social characteristics of the species can be explained. The male Zuul is an inexhaustibly curious animal, possessed by a hunger for knowledge, information and understanding which might be considered admirable, were it not so inimical to the interests of other sentient beings.

From early childhood onward, male Zuul are driven to seek intellectual stimulation; but the common source of this stimulation is rather horrifying to contemplate. There is a good deal of communication and cooperation among male Zuul, who seem to share information and concepts very readily with one another by verbal and telepathic means. But over and above this cooperative education, male Zuul take great pleasure in invading the minds of other sentient beings, scouring them for information and knowledge by means of psionic interrogation.

The process of harvesting information from an enemy's brain is emotionally painful, psychologically devastating and ultimately destructive for the victim, often leaving large gaps in memory or cognitive function. Most Zuul will try to draw out this process for as long as possible, not only because they find it diverting but because it is more efficient to break down a victim's mind patiently, over a period of months, rather than tear it apart too quickly. The more gifted or educated the victim, the longer a Zuul interrogator will try to extend the unraveling of the mind; a brilliant scientist or engineer is considered a prize among the Zuul, and such a prisoner can expect to spend months or even years in the interrogation room.

When the mind of a captive has been "ripped clean", the process leaves behind an empty shell. The victim's body is catatonic, with no brain activity above the simple autonomic level; typically such a prisoner will then be turned over to the female Zuul to be eaten, or used as a host for Zuul offspring.

Not all captives taken prisoner by the Zuul will be subjected to psionic interrogation. The vast majority, in fact, will simply become slaves. Although the mental strength of male Zuul varies, a Zuul slave-master is capable of overpowering psionic coercion. Former slaves of the Zuul often describe themselves as virtual automatons when subjected to the master's will, acting as ordered without being able to physically resist, or consciously form a rational objection or emotional response to their own actions--even when forced to harm friends or loved ones.

Ugly as it is to contemplate, these mental "feeding habits" of the male Zuul are at the heart of the rapid technological and social advancement of their species. Through psionic coercion, the Zuul have been able to use enemy prisoners to operate their own foreign technology, which has accelerated the back-engineering of that technology to an incredible degree. Through psionic interrogation, the Zuul have increased their fund of scientific and technical information by incalculable leaps and bounds, as well as absorbing numerous abstract notions which have helped to shape their present society.

The Ruins of Irridia V
----------------------
Assembling notes on the history and culture of the Zuul has proven to be difficult, for a variety of reasons. Very few Zuul have been captured alive and taken prisoner. Of those taken captive, only the males can be interrogated at all, and interrogating a male Zuul presents a significant challenge to those without natural psionic defenses.

Nonetheless, some details have emerged from early sessions with the few Zuul patriarchs who have chosen to cooperate with their captors. All sources agree, for example, that Zuul "society", as such, is a relatively recent phenomenon. The Zuul species is extremely young; the entire race has existed in its current form for less than a hundred years. Since they were first created and unleashed on the unsuspecting inhabitants of the world we call Irridia V, the Zuul have been in a constant state of flux, and only in recent decades have the various coteries of Zuul formed a collective, organized society sharing common ideals and goals.

SolForce investigators were given the location of Irridia V by a Zuul presently known by the codename "Deacon". Irridia is a hot giant star surrounded by dense high-gravity planetary bodies. By the time of their arrival, the ruins on the fifth planet had been abandoned by the Zuul for a number of years, and most of the structures were in a state of weather-beaten disrepair. Nonetheless, with the help and guidance of Deacon, a team of crack xeno-archeologists was able to piece together the tragic history of this world... and to find the remains of its former occupants.

Irridia V was the colonial outpost of an unknown alien species. To date we have no name for this unknown race; SolForce scientists refer to them as "Species X". Little is known about the physical or social nature of Species X; even the remaining bone fragments left on Irridia V are rarely larger than 20 centimeters in length. But we do know that they were a star-faring race with an unknown means of faster-than-light propulsion. They had settled on Irridia V after traveling a significant distance from their own home world; no other remains of their civilization have been found in neighboring star systems, but they were not native to I-V. The remains of Species X have been tested extensively for any resemblance to other life forms on the surface; there are only a handful of plants and animals on the planet that share more than 90% of their genome. It can be safely assumed that these organisms were imported as part of a terraforming project, to make Irridia V more livable.

Examining the structures built by Species X suggests that the colony was a scientific research facility; the majority of resources appear to have been devoted to laboratories and machinery designed for high-energy research, possibly in the field of gravity manipulation. It may have been this research which first attracted the attention of "Species Y", the creators of the Zuul, or there may have been a pre-existing conflict between the two races. It is impossible at present to say. According to the testimony of "Deacon", however, the members of Species X did not expect to be attacked in any way, and had made no effort to defend themselves; they may even have believed they were alone in the universe, prior to first contact with another star-faring race.

Regardless, it is clear that when the first infant Zuul appeared in their area, Species X did not immediately recognize the voracious creatures as a deliberate attack; they were mistakenly regarded as an infestation of native pests. Species Y, however, had deliberately and maliciously dropped the first Zuul on Irridia V with the intention of destroying Species X. The remains of the drop-pods they used have been found; these were obviously released from low orbit, filled with live female Rippers that were intended to die on impact with the planet's surface.

The mass awakening of Zuul infants following this drop must have created an appalling wave of destruction. Mathematically speaking, most of the agricultural resources of the colony would have been wiped out within a few weeks--as well as many members of its civilian population. And despite the efforts of Species X to fight the horde of infant Zuul, a large number of Rippers clearly survived to latter childhood and began to form their first coteries in the undefended perimeter of the colony.

It was here that the original intentions of Species Y may have gone awry. We cannot say precisely what they meant to achieve when they created the Zuul, but it seems unlikely that they realized the full potential of their creation. All we can say for certain is that they dropped the Zuul on the surface of Irridia V and departed the scene; there is no evidence that they ever returned. It seems probable that they expected the savage Zuul to survive only long enough to wipe out Species X, they could not have expected this to take long, as the population of Irridia V was small and not at all prepared to defend itself. Thereafter, it would probably have been logical to assume that the Zuul would quickly die out, exhausting the very limited resources of a bleak, half-terraformed world in very short order. The Zuul, by nature a rapacious and highly aggressive species, should have quickly eaten Irridia V down to the bedrock and then suffocated when the last of its oxygen-producing plants were destroyed.

When the scientists of Species Y were tinkering with the intelligence and psionic capabilities of the Zuul, however, they may not have realized the fascination that male Zuul would have for the minds of potential victims. It is horrifyingly obvious, from the evidence found at Irridia V, that the survivors of Species X were not at all quick in dying; the majority were not eaten until years or even decades after the first generation of Rippers reached adulthood. Instead, these colonists were held captive, enslaved, studied, and "mind-ripped" by the primitive forbears of the modern Zuul, who used the alien scientists and their advanced technical knowledge to build the first ships with which fledgling Rippers would reach the stars.

The length of time that some of the Species X captives remained alive is itself astonishing, and seems to indicate that this race may have had some natural, in-born resistance to psionic invasion or attack. Many decades later, all remaining members of Species X are now long gone; it is impossible even to piece together a partial skeleton from their race. Nonetheless, in a very real sense, both Species X and Species Y were the "parents" of the modern Zuul. In Ripper cosmology, the contributions of both species are regarded as sacred.

Social Characteristics of the Zuul
----------------------------------
To say that Zuul society is "male-dominated" would be a grotesque understatement. Among Zuul, females are regarded at beasts at best; in general, a male sees the members of his coterie as expendable tools, and treats them as he might treat a body part that can be easily and painlessly replaced. When Rippers meet in social situations, females are generally concealed from view, draped with cloth or ordered to crouch inconspicuously until they are useful.

"Society" as such consists only of male Zuul. At present, the race is organized into a loose theocracy. All Ripper males are members of a single religion, and motivated by a single set of ideas and goals which are tenets of this religion.

Modern Zuul recognize themselves as an artificial species. Their own artificial origin fascinates them, and they have developed an obsessive desire to find the race they call the Creators or the "Great Masters" (a.k.a. Species Y), the mysterious scientists that abandoned them on the surface of Irridia V. It is the belief of modern Zuul that every aspect of their nature represents a deliberate and purposeful choice on the part of the Creators, who made them strong, rapacious, intelligent, etc. in order to serve as part of a greater scheme. They would like to have the details of this scheme revealed to them, and most Zuul appear to believe that their Creators will re-appear and explain a great many things about the universe and the Zuul's place in it when their creations have somehow proved their worth.

Accordingly, all Zuul ventures into space are conceived as part of a great Crusade, a quest for knowledge and power which will ultimately lead the Rippers to their celestial Fathers, the scientists of Species Y. Opinions seem to differ on whether the Creators are planning to return at some point of their own accord, or whether the Zuul are expected to find them in some colossal cosmic game of hide-and-seek. Regardless, until they meet the Creators face to face, the Zuul believe it is their sacred duty and divine right to act on the imperatives that all males of the species seem to share. They believe that they are obligated and entitled to satisfy their relentless curiosity and thirst for knowledge on the one hand... and to enslave and destroy the weaker, less worthy species that populate the universe on the other.

To the Zuul, the universe and all living things in it are generally regarded as "mother". Like Species X, all things "mother" are worthless and meaningless in and of themselves. Despicable and weak as it may be, however, that which is "mother" is nevertheless the wellspring of life, a fecund bed of resources, designed to be ripped apart and devoured in order that the divine masculine spark can come to exist. By contrast, that which is considered pure, admirable, and worthy of respect in some way is usually considered masculine, and given the attributes of "father".

The only true currency of the Ripper economy is information. The wealth and influence of any given Zuul is measured by the number of ships and slaves he can control. Intelligence and strength of mind is highly valued; higher status is conferred upon those with the strongest psionic abilities. Rank among Zuul tends to be analogous to the organization of a religious faith; more influential Zuul hold their positions by the charismatic power of the will, as well as the ability to educate or enlighten others. "Father" , "Lord" or "Master" are the common terms of respect used by those addressing a superior; "brother" is how one addresses an equal, and "son" is the term one uses to address an inferior.

The highest ranking members of Zuul society hold titles equivalent to that of a bishop or a cardinal, and the nearest human equivalent to the Zuul's "GreatFather" would probably be an ancient pharoah or pope. The orders given by these high-ranking Zuul are obeyed without question... but there is a good deal of debate as to how long this unity and cooperation among the Zuul can last.

Given the rate at which Rippers seem to be absorbing information and ideas from alien captives, some kind of social breakdown or schism is a definite possibility. Even the current organization of Zuul society seems to be a perverse, distorted version of religious and social notions which were somehow "ripped" from other races. If just a few new ideas could have such sweeping, far-reaching effects on their culture, a few more could easily reduce their species to internecine war.

Every sentient race has seen how easily a new idea can become a new ideology. In their hunger to swallow the souls of other races, the Zuul may eventually bite off much more than they can chew.

Addendum
--------
Latest SolForce intelligence strongly hints that the outpost of Species X found on Iridia V was in fact a small Morrigi outpost. However, as previously mentioned the bodies of the residents of the colony were so throughly consumed by the Zuul as to make 100% certainty impossible.