General Traits
--------------
Research: 100% (1:102c)
Industry: 120%
Growth: 85%
Civilian IO: 118%
Max Hazard: 550
Technology Affinities: Missiles, Smart Torpedos, Mines, Energy cannon, Heavy Beams, Phasers, Shields, EMP, Chakkar, Blazers, Projectors, Inertial Cannon, Dumb Torpedos
Space Travel: Increased speed with Larger Fleets
Other: Colony income from population or IO is only 80% that of other races. However, they earn 30% more in trade and in addition foreign trade value is doubled!

"We are the Travelers, the tribes of the Star-born. We rise like a new-fledged phoenix from the ashes of ruin, stretching forth to reclaim the sacred stars. If you would see our faces, look to your own dreams, your legends and tales of times long past; there you will find us, burning bright. Your ancestors offered us tribute and honor, but now you have forgotten us and the old ways. You disturb the graves of our fathers, murder our sisters and wives, and give us no choice but to serve you a chalice of blood."


General Description
-------------------
Of the sentient species still living in this sector of the galaxy, the Morrigi are one of the most ancient, and have the longest recorded history of interstellar travel.  Initially known only by the unique configuration of their low orbital attack drones, the Morrigi were named "Crows" by the first Human spacers to encounter them; these craft have an aerodynamic avian shape and swooping attack pattern which brought to mind the predatory scavengers of old Earth.  In recent years, more intensive investigation by SolForce Intelligence has revealed that the nickname "Crow" was curiously apt in many respects.  The Morrigi have many traits in common with the legendary Raven or Crow of old Earth, and any study of their history and behavior inevitably recalls a panoply of Terran legends of the divine Trickster bird, which could easily assume a variety of different forms, lead its befuddled enemies into fatal ambush, hoodwink more powerful foes out of valuable treasure, and which served inevitably as an avatar of the gods and goddesses of war.

The word "Morrigi" roughly translates as "Travelers" in the proto-Creole known as the Trade Language (there is some indication that the word may have other shades of meaning in the Morrigi dialects which remain un-translated).  At this juncture it is impossible to say how long the Morrigi have been capable of traversing long interstellar distances, but biological and archaeological evidence unearthed on Za'xharis, Kao'Kona, Wiira and Mars suggest that the Morrigi have been "Travelers" for several millennia.  Skeletal remains recovered on Wiira have revealed that some members of the Morrigi species have spent their entire developmental lives in space, from late infancy to adulthood, for at least six thousand years.  Artifacts recovered from the sites excavated on Za'xharis and Mars suggest that the Morrigi were monitoring and visiting the home worlds of the Human and Hiver races for at least four thousand years before either species went through an Industrial Revolution.  The dramatic site unearthed on Kao'Kona indicates that the Morrigi may have attempted to establish residence on the Tarka home world for nesting purposes in the past (see Sidebar, "The Wyrm of Daam'to").

Technology
----------
The modern Morrigi are not the pinnacle of technological and military achievement for their species.  Ample evidence suggests that the current political and technological state of the species in fact represents a significant decline from a peak, which occurred some ten to fifteen thousand years ago, when the Morrigi empire appears to have reached its maximal astro-territorial extent and its pinnacle of architectural and technological achievement.  Ruins dating to this era are still found in some star systems which are not presently held by Morrigi colonists and seem to be seldom visited by Morrigi fleets.

Given that the modern Morrigi may be the descendants of a more advanced Morrigi civilization, and that a great many technological secrets of their forebears appear to be lost to them, the technological complex they still possess is quite impressive.   Central to this techno-culture is a highly advanced skill for building and programming pilotless drones, an uncanny control over gravimetric weapons, and a unique faster-than-light engine called the Void Cutter.

A Void Cutter engine, once engaged, uses gravimetric focusing to warp space-time around the ship to the point where it quickly accelerates to speeds in excess of the speed of light.  In so doing, however, the engine appears to create a ripple of space-time distortion, a "bow wave", which flows around the body of the ship and trails behind it in a wake.  This bow wave has several principles which Morrigi shipwrights and pilots have learned to take advantage of over the centuries, the most salient of which is that other ships employing a similar engine can enter into the slipstream of the foremost vessel, conjoin their own "bow wave" to that of the leader, and achieve faster-than-light speed without wasting the majority of their energy to create the initial disruption.  All ships following the lead vessel in a Morrigi flight pattern can devote the majority of their energy to forward thrust, rather than using it to crack the void.

The more Morrigi vessels are joined into a single flight, the faster the fleet as a whole will move, as the engines of all engines but one will be applied to thrust, while only the lead ship, the Void Cutter, will be devoting the majority of its energy to disrupting the fabric of space-time.  Morrigi travel slowest alone, and fastest when in large numbers. 

Physical Characteristics
------------------------
Morrigi display a mosaic of biological traits loosely associated with reptile, mammal and avian life forms.  They appear to have evolved from an arboreal omnivore, and still consume a varied diet, but the emphasis on protein and fats suggests that the earliest ancestors may have been ambush predators.  Physical traits are expressed differently by males and females of the species, but the sexual dimorphism observed may be only partially biological; a great deal of the divergence between sexes may be caused by cultural practices which significantly shape the bodies of male and female Morrigi in very different ways as they develop from infancy to adulthood.

The basic Morrigi torso is long and serpentine, with a length of approximately six meters from nose-tip to tail-tip in the largest female specimen found to date. Males appear to be significantly smaller in all cases, reaching a maximum length of three meters.  There are eight limbs along the length of the body.  Two pairs of grasping limbs are found on the upper torso, each with opposable digits and a broad range of motion through shoulder and wrist.  The third limb pair evolved into a pair of wings at some point during Morrigi evolution, likely when they were far less massive creatures; this wing pair extends to a wide span in the male and still allows him to achieve short bursts of atmospheric flight.  The wings appear to be vestigial and useless for flight in the female, but may retain some emotive or display function in social settings, a phenomenon that has been observed in other xeno-sentients (Nguy Sen, 2415).

In both male and female Morrigi, a pattern of reptilian scales covers the body.  Scales have developed a feather-like consistency over the wing pair, and similar feather-scale plumage is observed on the head and tail; the latter scales are highly colorful in the male and appear to serve a social display purpose.  A fourth limb pair above the tail marks the end of the organ cavity and is armed with a larger and more robust set of grasping claws.  The prehensile tail extends for a considerable distance; sometimes nearly doubling the length of the body, and in the male of the species is sometimes arrayed with an impressive second fan of display plumage.

Both male and female Morrigi have an elongated skull with a brain volume of over 2000 cubic centimeters and a beak-like proboscis.  The proboscis is split into three divisions in the male Morrigi, and in infant Morrigi of both sexes; in the female the two lower divisions of the beak appear to fuse into a single bony palate during adolescence.  The eyes in both sexes are large, arrayed toward the front of the skull to allow for binocular vision and excellent depth perception.  An array of rods and cones allow them to see contrasts, movement, and a full spectrum of color, with some extended range into the infrared.  The Morrigi retain a tapetum lucidum (a reflective layer of tissue at the back of the eye) as well, suggesting that they may have evolved originally from a lineage which foraged and hunted in low light as well as full light conditions.

Internally, the Morrigi possess an unusual cardiovascular system, with four functioning hearts and four pairs of lungs arranged along the length of the body.  The organ cavity in both sexes is armored by a long pectoral girdle which anchors over seventy rib sets, and behaves very much like a second spine; this pectoral spine mirrors the interlocking structure of the dorsal spine, but is wider and more loosely joined.  The largest heart-lung pair in the Morrigi body cavity is found in the upper torso, just below the uppermost limb set.  A second less robust pump is found below the second limb pair, with a third large and powerful heart just below the wings.  A final heart and lungs are found above the final limb set, serving to pump blood to and from the prehensile tail.  Along with the trachea and alimentary canal leading from the head, there are an additional eight subtly hidden breathing orifices are arranged along the body; apparently these can be consciously opened or sealed by a Morrigi which chooses to "hold its breath" for any reason, including occasional forays into the water. 

Both male and female Morrigi are highly intelligent and possess some psionic ability, although this ability is expressed very differently in the two sexes.  See "Sexually Dimorphic Traits" below for further information.  

Sexually Dimorphic Traits
-------------------------
The Morrigi are divided into two biological sexes, and Morrigi culture mandates that male and female offspring be separated into gender-segregated communities in early infancy.  Male Morrigi spend their lives from infancy to senescence in space, living aboard nomadic starships, which travel constantly from star to star (see Sidebar:  "The Traditional Morrigi Trader").  Female Morrigi are terrestrial creatures for the duration of their lives, raised in full gravity and adapted accordingly to planetary conditions; although they are known to travel from star to star, they always seek a base for land operations and conditions congenial to life on a planet's surface.

The differences in diet, environment and activity between male and female Morrigi lead the two sexes along two very different lines of physical development.  Male Morrigi are much smaller overall than the average female, and have much less robust bone development, especially in weight-bearing members of the lower limb sets.  They are rarely capable of standing upright in full gravity, but can usually fly for short bursts and glide for longer periods via their large and powerful wings.  Overall, the avian characteristics of the race are highly emphasized in the male.  The bones are extremely light and fragile.  The feather-scales are larger, longer, and much more brilliantly colored on head, wings and tail, and often contrast sharply to the scales of the body.   The triune beak of infant and adolescent Morrigi never fuses in the male of the species, and remains open through adulthood.  The dorsal and pectoral spines in the male are much lighter and more flexible.  The hearts and lungs are larger and even in some cases hypertrophic, leading to visible bulges in the rib girdle.

Nowhere is the sexual dimorphism of the species more clear than in the expression of psionic tendencies.  Male Morrigi possess a high degree of empathy with other members of their own species and with any other conscious living thing.  This faculty greatly facilitates the Morrigi ability to communicate, in particular to acquire new language skills and cultural fluency as needed, and may go a long way to explain the phenomenon of the so-called Morrigi "Trade language", a proto-Creole which reflects the deep language structures of all known sentients in this sector of the galaxy.

Another unusual feature of the Morrigi psionic complex is the famous Morrigi Glamour effect, also exclusive to the male and likely caused by the fierce social competition for mates within the species.  Over millennia, male Morrigi appear to have developed a capacity to attract and lull other creatures via an unusual form of psionic camouflage.  Under the influence of the male Morrigi's "Glamour", the victim's brain will spontaneously produce an image of "beauty" or "grace" that might normally be associated with desirable male companionship.  This effect may be sharpened to an extreme if the victim is biologically female, causing the Morrigi to appear, at least briefly, as an extremely attractive male of her species, although generally this illusion will be strangely still equipped with wings and may even be in flight.

In contrast to the space-faring male, female Morrigi tend to become much larger in overall body length and mass.  In general, females seem to develop the reptilian characteristics of the species much more fully.  The feather-scales of the head, tail and wing pair are much shorter, less brilliant and display less contrast with the torso.  The weight-bearing members of the lower body are much more robust and heavily muscled, allowing for limited bipedalism and rapid movement over horizontal and vertical planes on land.  The bones are thicker and heavier.  The triune beak becomes a more classically avian proboscis in the female, as the lower halves of the split fuse into a single bony palate, which presents a formidable cutting and piercing edge to potential predators in adolescence.  

Female Morrigi are equipped with three uterine organs along the underside of the body, each able to produce a single fertile egg from a given mating event; any given female may mate with more than one male and produce a separate egg from each father if she chooses.  Morrigi infants are produced in clutches of up to three, and spend a period of approximately 18 months from laying and hatching to fledging their first feather-scales in infancy.  When fledgling Morrigi sprout their first plumage, males and females are divided; a Morrigi mother will typically flag the nearest fleet at this time to offer her sons for "ascension" to space, while reserving her daughters for terrestrial life within a matrilocal tribe.  (See sidebar:  "The Traditional Morrigi Trader")

Psionic ability in the female Morrigi is expressed more defensively than in the male.  Although females evince some empathic and communicative ability, it is much less developed, and it is much less common for female Morrigi to be capable of creating a psionic "glamour".  They do, however, possess a powerful faculty of psionic resistance, which may have developed over the centuries in some sort of biocultural "arm's race" with the males of their species.  Female Morrigi have a very high resistance to psionic attack or persuasion; there is some evidence that they can also deflect or disrupt Liirian telekinetics.

Social Characteristics
----------------------
Little is known about the social behaviors of the pre-stellar Morrigi or the Morrigi of the so-called "Golden Age".  For the past several thousand years their society has been made up of many loosely affiliated and often highly competitive tribes, once largely independent of one another.  Today, all surviving Morrigi tribes have formed a confederation for mutual defense, after recent losses in a war which took place some hundred years ago.  Modern Morrigi look for leadership to a single Morrigi war-leader, the so-called "Morru Qu'aan".  War is an unusual undertaking for modern Morrigi.  In general, it appears that they prefer to use other societies as trading partners rather than engage in military conflict.    

Given that both male and female Morrigi are highly intelligent, highly competitive and often territorial, and it may be inferred that wars were more frequent at some point during their history.  Until the past century, however, "war" among their people was unknown and combat was a relatively bloodless ritual carried out at regular gathering festivals, when tribal groups would come together in certain regions of space.   (see Sidebar:  "The Honing").  This changed with the arrival of a species, which the Morrigi call "the Screamers" (see Sidebar:  "The Suuligi").

The heart and soul of traditional Morrigi culture has always been the complex relationship between males and females.  Each of the two sexes has its own lifeway and a widely different realm of social concerns.  Female Morrigi are traditionally land-bound, and have developed a terrestrial hierarchy based on ownership of bounded planetary property, industry, the use of capital, the control of physical resources and the building of urban environments.  Male Morrigi are stellar nomads, and have developed a nomadic hierarchy based on control of vast regions of space, trade routes, and access to desirable areas resources; including the privilege of descent to court available females for rights of marriage and economic alliance.

This curious division of society has created a complex web of dependence and exchange between the two sexes.  Beyond the need to come together for mating and propagation of genes, male and female Morrigi are dependent on one another to meet crucial economic and political needs.  Morrigi females depend on their relationships with allied male fleet groups to fuel the economy with needed resources and trade goods, as well as to provide defense for their vulnerable worlds and assert power within the political system.  Morrigi males depend on their relationships with female corporate fifes to build, arm, fuel, provision and repair the starships which are simultaneously their lives and their livelihoods, as well as provide them with a steady supply of new tribesmen.

Over millennia, the Morrigi have evolved elaborate courtship rituals, which establish and maintain these social, political, economic and sexual relationships.  On the broad social level, female groups strive to build and maintain the cities, colonies and shipyards that make them attractive to males, to achieve a steady flow of male traffic and alliance.  Morrigi females often they will build impressive structures to assert their prowess as artists, architects and scientists, presenting these impressive monuments as evidence of tribal power.  By contrast, male groups will develop their fighting skills in order to give a good showing in inter-tribal competition (see sidebar: "The Honing" for more information).  Trading and navigation skills are also developed to the maximal extent, and male Morrigi often compete both within the tribal group and more savagely with other tribal groups to seek the most beautiful and exotic item from the most far-flung world to offer females as evidence of their value as Traders.

The Morrigi lust for unusual objects is a strong motivating force within their society.  Items from distant planets are sought, exchanged and avidly collected by both male and female Morrigi as fetishes of power.  Temples, which collect and display these objects, are sacred, representing the ultimate expression of tribal identity and the union of male and female groups.   A sufficiently rare and precious object can cement a rite of marriage between thousands of individuals, male and female, who belong to the corresponding tribes.

On the individual level, both males and females of the species are considered valuable mating partners if they evince high intelligence and psionic ability.  The physical beauty of the male is highly prized, as is "charm" (the ability to project a powerful Glamour), speed and martial ability.  Females are valued for strength and wealth, and many males find the most irresistible mates are those who "see through" them the most easily; this is a sign of high psionic resistance and is highly prized, possibly because such mates and the alliances they represent will be neither easily gained nor easily lost.

Sidebar:  The Traditional Morrigi Trader
----------------------------------------
It is impossible to distinguish between male and female Morrigi at birth, and female Morrigi place equal parenting effort into all infants until the period of fledging, which occurs roughly three years after the female's leathery eggs are laid and hatched.  At fledging, the bright colors and highly contrasting scales of the male are usually immediately obvious, and other sexual characteristics linked to the sixty-third chromosome also appear.  At this point, the males are separated from their sister clutch mates to await Ascension.

On the arrival of the next stellar fleet, the Morrigi mothers who have given birth to males will offer their fledged sons to be "carried aloft".  The ritual of Ascension is generally a tense moment for all parties concerned, as male tribal leaders can be quite ruthless in negotiation before they accept new fledgling males aboard their ships.  The atmosphere is somewhat more relaxed if the fleet believes that the fledglings under review are their own sons, but if they have not mated before with the females in question, they may demand heavy payment or promises of future support as a "dowry" of sorts.  Accepting an infant into their ranks as a tribesman confers a parental responsibility on the group.  The boy must be nurtured, educated, and allowed to advance within the ranks; this can apparently be more difficult if the infant does not show characteristic plumage of the tribe.  

Once accepted into the flock, a male Morrigi begins training immediately for his responsibilities as an adult.  Education includes rigorous training as a pilot and a combat specialist, as well as a traditional review of the liberal arts.  Upon passage through adolescence and an extended series of proving rituals, a fully-fledged Morrigi tribesman achieves a minimal competence in personal and armed combat and spacemanship, and will be expected to acquit himself well at his station aboard any ship, whether he works in the galley, the guns, or commands the fleet.  More importantly, from the Morrigi perspective, he will learn calligraphy, languages, astronavigation, and familiarize himself with the philosophy, songs and literature of his people.  Achieving this state of education and decorum is necessary in order to be considered a "civilized person", and perhaps worthy to Descend once as an adult into the company of females... once he has something of worthy to offer them.

The desire to Descend in the Morrigi male is a complex one, comprised of equal parts sexual desire, ego and will to power.  It is through Descent that males develop economic and strategic relationships with their female counterparts, and it is how they maintain their own genetic heritage, through sons and daughters who form a legacy of blood.  In order to Descend, however, a male must have a ritual offering in hand.  This ritual tribute is called a Token, and seeking and crafting his Token is often an exercise in personal creativity, personal expression and personal courage.

The archaeological evidence unearthed on Wiira is perhaps the most dramatic evidence of the danger and personal risk, which an individual Morrigi might be willing to undergo in order to acquire a valuable Token.  The pilot of the crashed vessel recovered from a deeply buried strata had clearly been collecting early Liirian artifacts from the surface of Muur; the ivory weapons, ornaments and playthings recovered from the hold of his single-man starship were of a type common in the Liirian Neolithic.  Carbon dating of the startlingly well-preserved remains of the pilot confirm that he had become the victim of a stellar mishap over four thousand years ago.

"The Honing"
------------
In traditional Morrigi society, female Morrigi seldom travel from star to star, preferring to remain planet-bound and hold their terrestrial territory.  The exception to this rule was an occasion known as "The Honing".  During this ritual, selected female emissaries from the various feminine tribes would seek passage from allied male tribes to a place called "the Dancing Ground".  At this pre-selected gathering point among the Morrigi home worlds, the female representatives from many worlds would meet in council on the planet's surface while the male tribes engaged in an intensely competitive ritual series of "sports" in the air and space above.  These events were recorded and broadcast to the entire Morrigi civilization, with competitions including a full gamut of possible battle simulations:  single combat in the open air, armored combat on a neighboring moon, classic ship-to-ship dog-fighting engagements, and mock battles between entire fleets being the highlights of the spectacle.

The results of competition among the males at such an event would set the hierarchy of leadership among and within the otherwise largely egalitarian male tribes for the next "cycle", each "cycle" being an indeterminate number of years or centuries based on the Morrigi's complex galactic calendar.  The leader of the most victorious tribal fleet at the Honing would become "Morru Qu'aan", "First Among Travelers", until the next competition; the females allied to this tribe would gain the privilege (and obligation) of hosting the next such event, along with the other advantages associated with political leadership. 

The Wyrm of Daam'to
-------------------
Of the four major xenoarchaeological sites associated with the Morrigi, the most dramatic is the famous "Wyrm of Daam'to".  Discovered in the dry salt wastes of the continent of Lokris, the Daam'to salt mine had preserved the physical remains of fourteen Tarka and one Morrigi female in a state of natural mummification for many thousands of years.  It was excavated in the Tarkasian year 9087, and the associated artifacts have been on display in the Imperial Museum of Lokris for several centuries.

Piecing together the ancient site report with the items still held in curation at the Lokrisian capital city of Ku'Galu, it would appear that the individuals found in Daam'to were all killed when a section of the salt mine collapsed, burying all fifteen individuals under many tons of salt and rock.  The Morrigi, judging by its skeleton and equipment, would have been a well-developed adult female; parts of her skull, left wing, dorsal and pectoral spines were recovered, as well as three thick long bones, and there are many fragments of metal which were likely part of some sort of protective armor.  The Tarka group consisted of six females, seven adolescent males and one Changed male, the latter of which was armed with an impressive bronze spear and a war hammer of the Ku Dynasty.  The remains of three of the females and four of the adolescent males are heavily scorched, as if they had been subjected to partial immolation.

Taken in context with other archaeological finds and current knowledge of Morrigi territorial wanderings, the Wyrm of Daam'to raises a number of disturbing questions.  It is an indisputable fact that there is no creature in the fossil record of Old Earth, Ko'Kuma, Tcho'to-pre or Muur which possesses the mosaic of traits common to Morrigi males and females.  Nonetheless, creatures with a striking resemblance to Morrigi seem to have cropped up repeatedly in the legends, art and iconography of all four species.  All four species have at least one word, (and sometimes words is several languages) for "dragon"--these words almost immediately spring to mind upon seeing a live Morrigi for the first time.  

Some "dragons" in the legends of all four species were interested in collecting treasure, and are often depicted enthroned upon massive beds of precious metals, art or gems.  In other cases, divine winged visitors appear to have exercised profound influence over political and religious leaders, and even to have established some sort of domination over a historical population, as in the "Feathered Serpent" legends of Old Earth and Tcho'to-pre.  It seems distinctly possible at this sitting that ancient Morrigi visitors may have established outposts, trade, and possibly even imperial control over historical populations of humans, Hivers, Tarka or Liir.  At present, however, the Wyrm of Daam'to is the only direct evidence for this hypothesis.

The Zuligi War
--------------
For several thousand years, the relationship between Morrigi and other sentient species seems to have been largely peaceful, centered on limited cultural exchange and trade.  In the past century, however, the Morrigi have suffered catastrophic losses in a war with an enemy they call "Zuligi".  Analysis of bone fragments recovered from the surface of Irridia V and the pilot of the vessel recovered on Wiira reveal an indisputable genetic similarity between the two.  At this point it seems very clear that the outpost destroyed on Irridia must have been a small Morrigi colony, likely populated by female Morrigi pursuing scientific research.  Similar attacks may have been launched by Species Y, the creators of the Zuul, on multiple Morrigi worlds.  There is also evidence of combat and desecration of ancient Morrigi monuments which may have taken place at roughly the same time.

Modern Morrigi tribesmen are tight-lipped on the subject of the enemy, referred to in some of their transmissions only as "the Screamers". However, it is strongly suspected, though not proven, that Species Y and the "Zuligi" are one and the same. If true, then this would mean that the Liir's "Suul'ka", AKA the Zuul's "Great Masters" were a powerful military and technological force in this sector of the galaxy until a relatively short time ago.  Finding the former homeworld and colonial outposts of this star-faring species, which appears to have disappeared practically overnight, is an urgent priority for all intelligence agencies.  If Species Y was in fact destroyed by biological warfare, as their Liirian enemies claim, they have left behind an incalculable wealth of infrastructure, technology and scientific knowledge.  The first species to find and back engineer the remnants of their civilization might gain a key advantage over competing species.   

